
For launching the cloud IDE: Here is the link: https://mplabxpress.microchip.com/mplabcloud/ide/

Another way: Start from the examples site given [here](https://mplabxpress.microchip.com/mplabcloud/example). Choose any example for this board (choose the device as PIC16F18855).  Click on the IDE icon under the "Open" column on the right hand side. It opens the IDE. Click on the myMicrochip login at the right bottom. You can create your login there, or use login if you already have an account. Click on MCC and open .jnlp file with Java web launcher.  

The Cloud IDE and MCC work fine on Win 10; See below for running them on Win 7 and Linux. Any previously developed code (on Win 10 with MCC functioning) can be compiled, downloaded and successfully run on the board plugged in via usb into either a Win 7 or Linux m/c. More details below. 

Win 7 installation: MCC download (a .jnlp file) was somehow connected to wordpad. So, I had to do 'open with' and choose 'Java Launcher.' JRE was out-of-date. Installed it - with Oracle's recommended settings. Once it is installed, hope the Cloud IDE will work. Not sure of MCC launch. But the previously developed code compiled easily. Downloaded to the board and the board executed the code (for LED On Off) successfully. Still to go back and understand the MCC part. Update: Used the steps [here](https://blackboard.secure.force.com/btbb_exportarticlepdf?id=kA770000000CbF5CAK) to associate the jnlp with Javaws application. Now ready to launch the IDE again. Javaws - Java web start launcher, different from the usual Java web launcher. You have to open the properties of the saved .jnlp file, hit the 'Change' button associated with the 'Opens with' icon, hit 'Browse', browse to the Java folder and drill down to the javaws (in my case it was in Java/jre 1.8.0_191/bin folder). right click on it, choose open. It will show up in the original 'other Programs' as 'Java(TM) Web Start Luancher' with an additional line about the company (Oracle Corporation). Hit OK. Apply and OK in the properties window of the jnlp file. When you open the MCC again, make sure you choose Java web start launcher, not the Java web launcher. MCC should launch with the GUI to adjust different periperhals, registers, etc. 

Linux installation:  I used command line to download and install icedtea-netx and then executed javaws on the .jnlp file. Error message: Not a launchable jnlp file. However, as with Win 7, I could run previously developed code successfully on the board plugged in. Directions at this [link](https://askubuntu.com/questions/565016/how-to-run-a-jnlp-file-in-ubuntu-server). Actually, for a different application, I had to link earlier with IBM Java version and this [link](https://askubuntu.com/questions/293117/not-able-to-install-javaws) implies that I would need Oracle Java. I am unable to try this out, because of my other application; but if you are using Linux, please try it out. I expect it will work. 
